Analysis of Amazon Sales Data
1. Data Overview and Preparation
Initial Data Shape and Columns:

The dataset initially contains 128,976 rows and 21 columns. After removing duplicates and missing values, the dataset was reduced to 128,808 rows.
Data Cleaning:

Duplicates: 168 duplicated rows were found and removed.
Missing Values: All rows with missing values were dropped, which might lead to loss of data but ensures the remaining dataset is complete.


2. Data Visualizations


Q1: How does the distribution of order quantities vary by category?

plt.figure(figsize=(12, 6))
sns.boxplot(x='Category', y='Qty', data=df)
plt.title('Distribution of Order Quantities by Category')
plt.xlabel('Category')
plt.ylabel('Order Quantity')
plt.grid(True)
plt.show()
Analysis:
The box plot shows the spread and distribution of order quantities across different categories.
It helps identify which categories have higher or lower order quantities and if there are any significant outliers.
Categories with wider boxes or higher medians indicate larger order quantities, while narrower boxes suggest more consistent quantities.



Q2: What is the distribution of sales amounts for different sales channels?

sns.boxplot(x='Sales Channel', y='Amount', data=df)
plt.title('Distribution of Sales Amounts by Sales Channel')
plt.xlabel('Sales Channel')
plt.ylabel('Amount')
plt.show()
Analysis:
This box plot reveals how sales amounts vary across different sales channels.
Differences in the box plot heights and the presence of outliers can show which sales channels are more lucrative or variable.
Sales channels with higher median lines and larger interquartile ranges (IQR) generally have higher sales amounts.



Q3: What is the distribution of sales amounts?

plt.figure(figsize=(12, 6))
plt.hist(df['Amount'], bins=10, color='Red', edgecolor='Black')
plt.title('Distribution of Sales Amount')
plt.xlabel('Amount')
plt.ylabel('Frequency')
plt.show()
Analysis:
The histogram shows the frequency distribution of sales amounts.
It helps to understand the overall sales distribution, such as whether most sales fall into a specific range or if there are a few large transactions.
The shape of the histogram can reveal whether sales amounts are skewed to the left (more lower values) or right (more higher values).




Q4: Is there a relationship between order quantity and sales amount?

plt.scatter(df['Qty'], df['Amount'], color='Green', edgecolor='Red')
plt.title('Sales Amount vs. Order Quantity')
plt.xlabel('Order Quantity')
plt.ylabel('Sales Amount')
plt.show()
Analysis:
The scatter plot helps visualize the relationship between order quantity and sales amount.
A positive correlation might be observed if higher quantities tend to lead to higher sales amounts.
The spread and density of points can provide insights into how order quantity impacts sales, indicating potential patterns or anomalies.



Q5: What is the total sales amount by category?

category_sales = df.groupby('Category')['Amount'].sum()

plt.figure(figsize=(10, 6))
category_sales.plot(kind='bar', color='coral')
plt.title('Total Sales Amount by Category')
plt.xlabel('Category')
plt.ylabel('Total Sales Amount')
plt.xticks(rotation=45)
plt.grid(True)
plt.show()


Analysis:
This bar plot illustrates the total sales amount for each category.
It provides a clear comparison of sales performance across different categories, highlighting which categories contribute the most to the total sales.
Categories with higher bars are the most significant in terms of revenue, which can guide strategic decisions and focus areas.



Summary


Distribution Insights: By analyzing distributions and visualizing order quantities and sales amounts, you gain a better understanding of how sales performance varies across categories and sales channels.
Relationship Analysis: The scatter plot helps explore the relationship between order quantities and sales amounts, which can inform inventory and pricing strategies.
Category Performance: The bar plot provides a clear view of how each category contributes to total sales, useful for identifying key revenue drivers and optimizing category management.
